# Internet-Art-Final
◕ ◞ ◕ This project was made using https://netnet.studio

  From the day I learned to write, I have been a voracious journal-keeper. The closet of my childhood bedroom is filled with stacks of handwritten journals, forming a tower of fifteen years’ worth of handwritten musings, complaints, and lists bound in stickered and glittered composition notebooks. Though my Internet Art final takes a modern, digital form, its raw material originates from this distinctly analog source. Each fragment of text you see on the screen is a direct quote from my journals, and each font was handcrafted (on the calligraphr web app and Gimp program) from scans and tracings of my developing handwriting. The visuals of my project are purposefully quite plain; crumpled notebook paper and a blue leather background evoke the feeling of browsing through my physical journals. 

  You may ask why I would prioritize an analog aesthetic over the flashier possibilities afforded by CSS. I was inspired by Virginia Heffernan’s statement that:

“The magic of the Internet-the recession of the material world in favor of a world of ideas-is not pure delight. It seems we are missing something very worthwhile and      identity-forming from our predigital lives. Is it a handwritten letter? Is it an analog phone call? Is it a quality of celluloid film, a multivolume encyclopedia, or a leather-bound datebook? Is it a way of thinking or being or even falling in love?” 

  My project is an attempt to partially recuperate that loss while imbuing it with new magic. Leafing through journal pages is a physical experience that can never be fully be recreated online, but I feel that the handwritten fonts I created imbue the text with my personality. I wasn’t attempting a recreation, anyway, but a reworking. Crucially, my fragments are not direct scans of their paper counterparts; in their HTML/CSS form, they are something new--something magical. 
Also, in line with Ted Nelson’s ideas about how computers allow exciting departures from old forms of media (particularly his innovations in “deep linking” and nonlinear history), the web format of my project allows interaction with what would otherwise be a static page. Hidden links provide extra context (and fun!) to the viewer, and the fragments enlarge upon hovering, materializing the viewer’s focus. 

  I hope that in the future, I can add more fragments to my personal nonlinear history—I certainly have enough material[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hWA5DNcc_EXkMkqHTdU4yl-MhNPaVMkn/view?usp=sharing](url)! It’s just pretty time consuming to make the fonts. I’d also like to explore linking between fragments in visually interesting ways, like making fragments float up when then viewer is focused on another topically related one. I think that would allow further exploration of Nelson’s ideas…
